README.md, before:

R guides & galleries for data analysis & presentation
================

-   [Learn to analyse data with R](#learn-to-analyse-data-with-r)
-   [Learn to visualise data with R](#learn-to-visualise-data-with-r)

A short list of **core** R guides and galleries.

Following these can lead you from zero experience to mastering the key skills of data analysis and presentation with R.

Learn to analyse data with R
----------------------------

1.  **Code Skills:** Learn RStudio and R code from zero knowledge to quite advanced using [Modern R with the tidyverse](https://b-rodrigues.github.io/modern_R/).

2.  **Seek help often - become independent:** Don't hesitate to ask for people for help or look online. Getting better at solving your own problems in R using Google and other resources is a really important skill to learn too, even when you're an expert R programmer. This [getting help in R](https://blog.rsquaredacademy.com/getting-help-in-r-updated/) blog summaries the main places to find help. The more you seek help the better you get at judging which web sites and people help you quickly with good solutions.

3.  **Code Style:** Write clear code that is easier to Quality Assure by following [The tidyverse style guide](https://style.tidyverse.org). Though it's much less effort to style your code automatically by running the [RStudio Styler add-in](http://styler.r-lib.org).

4.  **Package Code:** If your data analysis is regularly repeated or re-used, consider converting it into a [Reproducible Analytical Pipeline (RAP)](https://ukgovdatascience.github.io/rap_companion/). Start to learn how to build a RAP by learning how to build the most simple [R Package](https://r-pkgs.org/index.html) possible first.

Learn to visualise data with R
------------------------------

1.  **Pick the right visualistion to tell your data story:** Follow this [guide to the right visualisation for the task](https://serialmentor.com/dataviz/), particularly the chapter on [telling a story and making a point](https://serialmentor.com/dataviz/telling-a-story.html).

2.  **ggplot step-by-step:** Learn now to build ggplot charts step-by-step with this [flipbook guide](https://evamaerey.github.io/ggplot_flipbook/ggplot_flipbook_xaringan.html#1). While [this version](https://evamaerey.github.io/tidyverse_in_action/tidyverse_in_action.html#1) also includes some simple data preparation examples before building the charts step-by-step.

3.  **Use RStudio Addins:** Many "Addins" have been written for RStudio. When you run them from the RStudio "Addins" menu they typically offer simple Point-and-Click interfaces that generate good working code. Here is a [long list of RStudio Add-ins](https://github.com/daattali/addinslist) maintained by the excellent Dean Attali (he is also an R Shiny instructor on DataCamp). The [esquisse](https://github.com/dreamRs/esquisse) Addin is an excellent Point-and-Click interface for building and generating the code for simple ggplot charts. Even advanced R users can find ggplot code tricky so esquisse is useful for everyone.

4.  **Use interactive charts:** [Gallery of interactive R visualisations](http://gallery.htmlwidgets.org/). From this gallery, I strongly recommend trying the [dygraphs](http://rstudio.github.io/dygraphs/) package for time series charts, use [Plotly](https://plot.ly/r/) for a huge variety of easy to code interactive charts, and [echarts4r](https://echarts4r.john-coene.com) is easy to code graphs that also include animation.

5.  **Extend ggplot:** This [gallery of ggplot extensions](https://www.ggplot2-exts.org/gallery/) lets you create a greater variety of charts based on ggplots.

Commit message:

Adding rpivotTable and animation reccs

README.md, after:

R guides & galleries for data analysis & presentation
================

-   [Learn to analyse data with R](#learn-to-analyse-data-with-r)
-   [Learn to visualise data with R](#learn-to-visualise-data-with-r)

A short list of **core** R guides and galleries.

Following these can lead you from zero experience to mastering the key skills of data analysis and presentation with R.

Learn to analyse data with R
----------------------------

1.  **Code Skills:** Learn RStudio and R code from zero knowledge to quite advanced using [Modern R with the tidyverse](https://b-rodrigues.github.io/modern_R/).

2.  **Seek help often - become independent:** Don't hesitate to ask for people for help or look online. Getting better at solving your own problems in R using Google and other resources is a really important skill to learn too, even when you're an expert R programmer. This [getting help in R](https://blog.rsquaredacademy.com/getting-help-in-r-updated/) blog summaries the main places to find help. The more you seek help the better you get at judging which web sites and people help you quickly with good solutions.

3.  **Code Style:** Write clear code that is easier to Quality Assure by following [The tidyverse style guide](https://style.tidyverse.org). Though it's much less effort to style your code automatically by running the [RStudio Styler add-in](http://styler.r-lib.org).

4.  **Package Code:** If your data analysis is regularly repeated or re-used, consider converting it into a [Reproducible Analytical Pipeline (RAP)](https://ukgovdatascience.github.io/rap_companion/). Start to learn how to build a RAP by learning how to build the most simple [R Package](https://r-pkgs.org/index.html) possible first.

Learn to visualise data with R
------------------------------

1.  **Explore your data first:** There are several tools that can make exploring your data in R faster and easier than coding alone. For example, many "Addins" have been written for RStudio. When you run them from the RStudio "Addins" menu they typically offer simple Point-and-Click interfaces that generate good working code. Here is a [long list of RStudio Add-ins](https://github.com/daattali/addinslist) maintained by the excellent Dean Attali (he is also an R Shiny instructor on DataCamp). The [esquisse](https://github.com/dreamRs/esquisse) Addin is an excellent Point-and-Click interface for building and generating the code for simple ggplot charts. Even advanced R users can find ggplot code tricky so esquisse is useful for everyone. Another great way to explore your data is using the R version of Excel Pivot tables called [rpivotTable](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/rpivotTable/vignettes/rpivotTableIntroduction.html).

2.  **Pick the right visualistion to tell your data story:** Follow this [guide to the right visualisation for the task](https://serialmentor.com/dataviz/), particularly the chapter on [telling a story and making a point](https://serialmentor.com/dataviz/telling-a-story.html).

3.  **ggplot step-by-step:** Learn now to build ggplot charts step-by-step with this [flipbook guide](https://evamaerey.github.io/ggplot_flipbook/ggplot_flipbook_xaringan.html#1). While [this version](https://evamaerey.github.io/tidyverse_in_action/tidyverse_in_action.html#1) also includes some simple data preparation examples before building the charts step-by-step.

4.  **Use interactive charts:** [Gallery of interactive R visualisations](http://gallery.htmlwidgets.org/). From this gallery, I strongly recommend trying the [dygraphs](http://rstudio.github.io/dygraphs/) package for time series charts, use [Plotly](https://plot.ly/r/) for a huge variety of easy to code interactive charts, and [echarts4r](https://echarts4r.john-coene.com) is easy to code graphs that also include animation.

5.  **Extend ggplot:** This [gallery of ggplot extensions](https://www.ggplot2-exts.org/gallery/) lets you create a greater variety of charts based on ggplots.

6.  **Consider animation:** If the movment of data points in your plots supports and helps better explain the story you are telling data consider creating animated plots using [gganimate](https://github.com/billster45/gganimate-experiments/blob/master/README.md).
